Updated framework. Added script support, added verification, populate… (#17119)
istio/istio: tests/istio.io/README.md

## Writing Tests

The Istio.io test framework supports the following test types:

> * Scripts can be executed using the `RunScript(script string, output outputType, verifier VerificationFunction)` method. This method takes a path to a script starting at the root of the Istio source tree, an output type (`TextOutput`,`YamlOutput`, and `JsonOutput`), and an optional verification function. If a verification function is not provided, then an error code returned from the script will be evaluated as a test failure. 

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

> This example will execute the curl-foo-bar-legacy.sh script, store the output in a file named

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

This example will execute the 

```golang
func TestMTLS(t *testing.T) {
  examples.New(t, "mtls-migration").
    RunScript("curl-foo-bar-legacy.sh", examples.TextOutput, examples.GetCurlVerifier([]string{"200", "200", "200"})).
    Run()
}
```

* Executing custom Go tests by calling `Exec(testFunction testFunc)` where the argument is a function of the form func(t *testing.T) error. Leaving the namespace argument empty will not apply the file to a specific namespace.

This example will apply the YAML file located at `samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/rbac/productpage-policy.yaml` on the bookinfo namespace.

```golang
func enforcingServiceLevelAccessControlStep1(t *testing.T) {
	examples.New(t, "Enforcing Service-level access control Step 1").
		Apply("default", "samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/rbac/productpage-policy.yaml").
		Run()
}
```

* Waiting for pods to deploy using the `WaitForPods(fetchFunc KubePodFetchFunc)` function where KubePodFetchFunc follows the form func(env *kube.Environment) kubePkg.PodFetchFunc.

> This example will first execute the  `create-ns-foo-bar-legacy.sh` script which creates several pods in the foo, bar, and legacy namespaces. After the script executes, `WaitForPods` is called, which uses

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

the built-in `examples.NewMultiPodFetch` to select all pods from the foo namespace.

```golang
func TestMTLS(t *testing.T) {
  examples.New(t, "mtls-migration").
    RunScript("create-ns-foo-bar-legacy.sh", examples.TextOutput, nil).
		WaitForPods(examples.NewMultiPodFetch("foo")).
    Run()
}
```

> This method allows a test to wait for a set of pods (specified by the fetch function) to start, or for 30 seconds, whichever comes first.

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

To write a test:

1. Add the following imports to your file:

```golang
"istio.io/istio/pkg/test/framework"
"istio.io/istio/pkg/test/framework/components/environment"
"istio.io/istio/pkg/test/framework/components/istio"
"istio.io/istio/pkg/test/istio.io/examples"
```

> 2. Next, create a function called `TestMain` as follows. This function will setup the Istio environment used by the tests. The `istio.Setup` function accepts an optional method to customize the Istio environment deployed.

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

```golang
func TestMain(m *testing.M) {
  framework.NewSuite("mtls-migration", m).
    SetupOnEnv(environment.Kube, istio.Setup(&ist, nil)).
    RequireEnvironment(environment.Kube).
    Run()
}
```

> 3. After creating `TestMain`, tests can be created as follows. In this example, the NewMultiPodFetch function is waiting for all pods in the foo, bar,and legacy namespaces to start. The GetCurlVerifier method is verify the responses from the curl script. Finally, the run method triggers the test to run.

Author: Done. Thanks.

    Run()
}
```

### Built in Verifiers

The framework includes some predefined verifiers for scripts. These are described below.

* `examples.GetCurlVerifier`: The GetCurlVerifier method is used to create a verifier that parses the output of a curl script and compares each response. If a response of `000` is returned from curl, the verifier will compare the next line against the provided output. Finally, the run method triggers the test to run. This validator expects responses in the form `sleep.foo to httpbin.foo: 200` except for when the response code is 000, in which case, the next line of output is expected to be an error statement. For example, the following output can be verified with `examples.GetCurlVerifier([]string{"200", "200", "000", "command terminated with exit code 56"}))`.

```bash
sleep.foo to httpbin.foo: 200
sleep.bar to httpbin.foo: 200
sleep.legacy to httpbin.foo: 000
command terminated with exit code 56
``` 

### Output

When the test framework runs, it creates a directory called output. This directory contains a copy of all YAML files, scripts, and a file for each script containing the output.

## Executing Tests Locally using Minikube

> * Create a Minikube environment as advised on istio.io

Author: Nope. No longer a requirement. Added a section about using make for that. Thanks.

* Tests can be run using the below command. 

```bash

>  go test ./... -p 1 --istio.test.env kube --istio.test.kube.config ~/.kube/config -v -istio.test.ci

Reviewer: Is the `--istio.test.kube.config ~/.kube/config` actually needed here since I believe it's a default? I'm fine with it there if it would be commonplace for someone to change it to something else.

Author: Yeah, just tested and this runs without --istio.test.kube.config or -istio-test.ci. Will remove both. They're explained on the linked parameters.

## Writing Tests

> Tests in the Istio.io framework support the following test types:

Reviewer 2: This section needs examples of each type of test and each type of output. Using examples, we doesn't only make things clearer to new test writers, it would also allow us to show what quality we expect. I would suggest using examples that showcase testing best practices.

```suggestion
The Istio.io test framework supports the following test types:
```

Author: Currently the outputtype only changes the extension on the output file. Should we still put examples of each output type?

* Executing scripts using the `RunScript(script string, output outputType, verifier VerificationFunction)` method
This method accepts an argument which is the name of a script to run, a desired outputType (`TextOutput`,`YamlOutput`, and `JsonOutput`), and an optional verification function. If verifier is set to nil, then any errors from the script will be interpreted as a failure of that step.

> * Applying/Deleting files using `Apply(namespace string, path string)`/`Delete(namespace string, path string)`

Reviewer 3: What does "apply" mean in this context?

Author: Thanks. Cleaned up the description to say: 

Use Apply(namespace string, path string) to execute a kubectl apply -f with the specifed file on the namespace specified. Use Delete(namespace string, path string) to do a kubectl delete -f. In both cases, the path is relative to the root of the Istio source tree.

These methods apply and delete the YAML file at path from the specified namespace.
* Executing custom Go tests by calling `Exec(testFunction testFunc)` where the argument is a function of the form func(t *testing.T) error.

> * Waiting for pods to deploy using the `W`aitForPods(fetchFunc KubePodFetchFunc)` function where KubePodFetchFunc follows the form func(env *kube.Environment) kubePkg.PodFetchFunc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Waiting for pods to deploy using the `WaitForPods(fetchFunc KubePodFetchFunc)` function where KubePodFetchFunc follows the form func(env *kube.Environment) kubePkg.PodFetchFunc.
```

This method allows a test to wait for a set of pods (specified by the fetch function) to start, or for 30 seconds, whichever comes first.

> To write a test, add the following imports to your file:

Reviewer 2: Please use numbered steps for procedures.

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

```

Next, create a function called TestMain as follows. This function will setup the Istio environment used by the tests. The `istio.Setup` function accepts an optional method to customize the Istio environment deployed.

```golang
func TestMain(m *testing.M) {
  framework.NewSuite("mtls-migration", m).
    SetupOnEnv(environment.Kube, istio.Setup(&ist, nil)).
    RequireEnvironment(environment.Kube).
    Run()
}
```

After creating `TestMain`, tests can be created as follows. In this example, the NewMultiPodFetch function is waiting for all pods in the foo, bar,and legacy namespaces to start. The GetCurlVerifier method is verify the responses from the curl script. Finally, the run method triggers the test to run.

```golang
func TestMTLS(t *testing.T) {
  examples.New(t, "mtls-migration").
    RunScript("create-ns-foo-bar-legacy.sh", examples.TextOutput, nil).
    WaitForPods(examples.NewMultiPodFetch("foo")).
    RunScript("curl-foo-bar-legacy.sh", examples.TextOutput, examples.GetCurlVerifier([]string{"200", "200", "200"})).
    Run()
}
```

### Built in Verifiers

The framework includes some predefined verifiers for scripts. These are described below.

> #### examples.GetCurlVerifier

Reviewer 2: Please do not use headings for lists.

Author: Fixed. Thanks.

The GetCurlVerifier method is used to create a verifier that parses the output of a curl script and compares each response. If a response of `000` is returned from curl, the verifier will compare the next line against the provided output. Finally, the run method triggers the test to run.

### Output

When the test framework runs, it creates a directory called output. This directory contains a copy of all YAML files, scripts, and a file for each script containing the output.

## Executing Tests Locally using Minikube

* Create a Minikube environment as advised on istio.io
* Run the tests as follows:

> ```bash

Reviewer 2: This command needs some explanation for folks who want to run the tests. I would suggest a breakdown of the different parts of the command so that people can understand what the command is doing.

Author: Added. Thanks.
